---
id: bradford
name: Kent J. Bradford
affiliation: Director, UC Davis Seed Biotechnology Center
photo: bradford.jpg
site: http://www.plantsciences.ucdavis.edu/bradford/bradford.htm
...

Kent J. Bradford is a Distinguished Professor in the Department of Plant
Sciences at the University of California, Davis. Originally from Texas, he
earned his B\.S\. degree in Biochemistry and M\.S\. degree in Horticulture from
Michigan State University and his Ph\.D\. degree in Plant Physiology from the
University of California, Davis. After a postdoctoral fellowship at the
Australian National University, he joined the faculty at UC Davis in 1982 and
served as the Chair of the Department of Vegetable Crops from 1993 to 1998. In
1999 he founded the UC Davis Seed Biotechnology Center and continues to serve
as its director. He received a Fulbright Scholar award in 1999 to teach in
Argentina and the Career Seed Science Award from the Crop Science Society of
America in 2002. He was elected a Fellow of the American Association for the
Advancement of Science in 2003, and received the faculty Award of Distinction
from the College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences at UC Davis in
2007. He was advanced to Distinguished Professor at UC Davis in 2013. In April
2016, he was a Resident Fellow at the Rockefeller Center in Bellagio, Italy. In
October 2017, he was appointed Interim Director of the UC Davis World Food
Center. 

Dr. Bradford\'s research interests span diverse areas of seed science from seed
germination and conservation to mathematical modeling and molecular biology. He
has published more than 170 peer-reviewed research and extension articles and
book chapters, co-edited three books and co-authored a textbook on seed
development, germination, dormancy and storage. His current interests are in
the genetic and molecular mechanisms regulating seed dormancy and germination,
in mathematical models to describe seed germination and dormancy behavior, and
in seed and food drying and preservation methods, particularly for humid
climates. As Director of the Seed Biotechnology Center, he supports the
creation and commercialization of new technologies to improve crop performance,
quality and sustainability and the continuing education of plant breeders and
seed industry professionals. He teaches University and Extension courses on
plant physiology, seed biology, biotechnology, ethics and philosophy of
science.
