---
id: greely
name: Hank Greely
site: https://law.stanford.edu/directory/henry-t-greely/
affiliation: Stanford University
topic: Ethical, legal, and social implications of new biomedical technologies
photo: greely.jpg
...

Henry T. Greely (BA \'74) specializes in the ethical, legal, and social
implications of new biomedical technologies, particularly those related to
neuroscience, genetics, or stem cell research. He frequently serves as an
advisor on California, national, and international policy issues. He is chair
of California\'s Human Stem Cell Research Advisory Committee, a member of the
Advisory Council of the NIHs National Institute for General Medical Sciences, a
member of the Committee on Science, Technology, and Law of the National
Academies, a member of the Neuroscience Forum of the Institute of Medicine, and
served from 2007-2010 as co-director of the Law and Neuroscience Project,
funded by the MacArthur Foundation. Professor Greely chairs the steering
committee for the Stanford Center for Biomedical Ethics and directs both the
law school\'s Center for Law and the Biosciences and the Stanford Program in
Neuroscience and Society. In 2007 Professor Greely was elected a fellow of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science.

Before joining the Stanford Law School faculty in 1985, Greely was a partner at
Tuttle & Taylor, served as a staff assistant to the secretary of the U.S.
Department of Energy, and as special assistant to the general counsel of the
U.S. Department of Defense. He served as a law clerk to Justice Potter Stewart
of the U.S. Supreme Court and to Judge John Minor Wisdom of the Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit.

Greely is also a professor (by courtesy) of genetics at Stanford School of
Medicine. He received the University\'s Richard W. Lyman Prize in 2013.
