---
id: lippman
name: Zachary B. Lippman
affiliation: Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory
photo: lippman.jpg
...

Prof\. Zach Lippman spent his early years working on a vegetable farm on the
coast of Connecticut where he became interested in agriculture and plant
breeding. He then attended Cornell University and studied plant biology and
genetics. At Cornell, Zach worked in the laboratory of Prof\. Steven Tanksley
where he completed honors research mapping the genes responsible for the
evolution of extreme fruit size in tomato. Zach\'s interests then shifted to
fundamental questions of how gene activity is controlled. For his Ph\.D\., Zach
attended the Watson School of Biological Sciences at Cold Spring Harbor
Laboratory where he worked with Prof\. Rob Martienssen to investigate how
transposons, or \"jumping genes\", control genes epigenetically in the model
plant Arabidopsis. Seeking to unite epigenetics and plant breeding, Zach moved
to Israel for postdoctoral research with Prof\. Dani Zamir where he studied the
basis of hybrid vigor, or heterosis in tomato. This led to an interest in plant
development, and Zach began studying genes that control flower production in
tomato and related Solanaceae species, which became the foundation for his
research program at Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory. For the last eight years,
the Lippman lab has integrated developmental genetics, comparative genomics,
molecular biology, genome engineering, and breeding to identify and apply new
genes and molecular networks that control stem cell fate and flower production,
with the goal of improving crop productivity.
